---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Getting Started
---

Installing Prerequisites
------------------------

Installing [node.js][node.js] and [Yarn][yarn install]:

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Getting Source Code and Installing Dependencies
-----------------------------------------------

```bash
git clone git@github.com:paion-data/Messier-61.git
cd Messier-61
yarn
```

Available Scripts
-----------------

After that, inside _Messier-61_ directory, we can run several commands:

- `yarn start`: Runs the app in the development mode. Open `http://localhost:8080` to view it in
  the browser. The page will reload if you make edits. You will also see any lint errors in the console.
- `yarn test`: Runs all tests, including unit and integration tests
- `yarn build`: Builds the app for production to the `build` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and
  optimizes the build for the best performance. The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.

Happy building awesome knowledge graph app!

### Writing TypeDoc

The [Messier-61 API][API] page was automatically generated by
[TypeDoc][TypeDoc], which parses the inline documentation of
Messier-61 source code. To generated them locally

```bash
cd docs
yarn typedoc
```

We can have TypeDoc watch for changes from the command line by using

```bash
yarn typedoc-watch
```

Submitting Code
---------------

Before committing your code, please run the following checks locally in order to give ourselves better confidence that
the code will pass the automated checks online:

1. Prettier our code:

   ```bash
   npx prettier --write .
   ```

2. Check code style using ESLint:

   ```bash
   npx eslint .
   ```

   :::caution

   ESLint currently does not run on documentation source codes, i.e. `/docs`

   :::

3. Run all tests

   ```bash
   yarn test
   ```

Troubleshooting
---------------

### Docusaurus Relative Linking is Treated False-Negative by CI Markdown Link check

CI check for Markdown link (`markdown-link-check`) is turned on and it's not smart enough to detect relative linking by
Docusaurus. The workaround is to disable the link check at the relevant line. For example:

```markdown
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
known. Additionally, this process makes it easy to implement a [blue-green deployment](continuous-delivery) or
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
```

### ESLint Reports False-Negative

Suppose we have the following TypeScript code

```typescript
node.radius + 25;
```

but ESLint complains that

```bash
error  Operands of '+' operation with any is possible only with string, number, bigint or any  @typescript-eslint/restrict-plus-operands
```

And we are sure that `node.radius` by definition is a `number`. This could happend due to the incorrect import, which
results `node` type not properly imported. As a result, TypeScript sees `node.radius` as to type `any` because it
doesn't know what type `node` is

[API]: https://QubitPi.github.io/Messier-61/api

[node.js]: https://nodejs.org/en

[onchange]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/onchange

[TypeDoc]: https://typedoc.org/guides/overview/

[yarn install]: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable
